Final-Assignment

GitHub repository link https://github.com/DimDeveloper18/Final-Assignment.git
Render link: https://final-assignment-3v47.onrender.com
Project Description
Online shop "TOOL STORE". The primary objective of creating a Tools Store website is to facilitate e-commerce activities. Specifically, the creation of an online store for the sale of construction tools, with a focus on both wholesale and retail distribution. The Tools Store website aims to assist businesses and individuals in selecting the appropriate and high-quality products required for their projects.

The home page of the Tool Store website provides a navigation bar where users can choose buttons with the names of pages to quickly navigate to content that interests them. On the right-hand top corner, there are buttons for "registration" and "login" on each website page. The "Homepage" provides useful information and special offers to customers. The "Tools" page contains tables with products categorized by type. The "Contact" page provides contact information and details about store opening hours. The "Delivery" page provides useful information regarding the delivery of products and the table of prices.

Registered users are able to post comments on the website, view them, edit them, and delete them. Comments can be submitted through a login form, which will redirect the user to a "comment" page. Once submitted, the comments will be visible on the "tools" page at the bottom of the website. The "tools" page provides users with a list of comment names. When a user clicks on a comment name, they will be redirected to the corresponding "comment" page, where they can view, edit, or delete that comment. The "logout" button can be found in the top right corner, which can only be seen if the user is logged in.

The special offer products found on the page contain a short description. Users can view them by clicking on them, and they can hide information by performing the same action. The "basket" button is available only to registered users and is located in the top right corner of the screen. When a user clicks on the button, they are redirected to the "basket" page.
Features
	Admin dashboard for managing products, categories, orders, comments, and profiles
	Product catalogue with “add to basket” function
	Multiple product quantity adding option and stock quantity update
	Inherited categories navigation, product search (filtering by product name)
	Cloudinary image hosting for fast and optimised product images
	Basket with quantity updates and remove item option 
	Comments (create, read, update, and delete) on tools catalogue pages
	User authentication (signup, logging, profile)
	Responsive UI using Bootstrap
	SendGrid email notification (for password reset)
Installation
Clone the repository: 
git clone https://github.com/DimDeveloper18/Final-Assignment.git
Navigate into directory: cd com_store
Create and activate a virtual environment: 
	create - python -m venv venv 
	activate - \venv\Scripts\activate
Install dependencies: 
	pip install Django
	pip install -r requirements.txt
	pip install django-crispy-forms
	pip install crispy-bootstrap5
	pip install Pillow
	pip install dj_database_url
	pip install coverage
	pip install django-anymail
	pip install python-dotenv
	pip install whitenoise
	pip install Cloudinary
	pip install django-cloudinary_storage
	pip install psycopg2-binary
	pip install Gunicorn
Configure Environment Variables: add to your .env file
	DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL= add your email here
	SENDGRID_API_KEY=add your SendGrid API key here
	SECRET_KEY=add your secret key here
	DEBUG=True or (Set 'False' when deploying to a production)
	CLOUD_NAME=add your Cloudinary name here
	CLOUD_API_KEY=add your Cloudinary API here
	CLOUD_API_SECRET=add your Cloudinary secret key here
	DATABASE_URL=add your Render External database URL here
Set up the Database: 
	python manage.py makemigrations
	python manage.py migrate

Collect static files: python manage.py collectstatic

Run the Development Server: python manage.py runserver and go to http://127.0.0.1:8000/

Project Structure

            com_store        		#  Main project folder
             	com_store      		#  Main settings and configuration
               htmlcov           		#  Test files generated by Coverage
               media          		#  Cloudinary – managed media
             	products_store    	#  App settings and configuration
            	migrations        	#  Managed Database history
             	static           		#  CSS, JavaScript, images
             	templates          	#  HTML templates
             	staticfiles           	#  Static collected folder
             .coverage         
             .env             
             .gitignore            
             db.sqlite3          
             manage.py          
             requirements.txt     
             venv

Running Test: python manage.py test

Deployment: Render

Production requirements:
	DEBUG=False
	Allowed hosts configured
	Cloudinary active
	SendGrid verified sender
	PostgreSQL database

Project developed by Dmitrii Shemetov
Contacts: 
	Email: dimash.itcout@gmail.com
	GitHub: https://github.com/DimDeveloper18
